Name: Phuc Huynh (Philip) Le
email: lephuc@grinnell.edu

Quiz for test 1:
1. How do the mistletoes get nutrients?
They feed on other trees. 
2. How to mistletoes spread its population?
Birds carry the mistletoes seeds to other plants. 
3. How to get rid of mistletoe? 
We have to cut the whole infected area.
4. What happens to effected branch? 
it lost nutrition.
5. Good things that mistletoes do to the animals?
They provide a home to some animals.

Quiz for test 2:
1. What does cooling tower do?
It gives away cool air. 
2. How can the bacteria in the cooling tower become harmful to people? How do they spread? 
They are harmful to our respiratory systems. They spread by proliferating through the air.
3. What illness is associated with the bacteria?
Pneumonia.
4. What regions in United States are effected by this bacteria inside the cooling tower?
New York City's South Bronx. 
5. What conclusion is give by Dr. Llewellyn?
Just because a cooling tower has the bacteria does not mean that it is spreading diseases.

Quiz for test 3:
1. What is the purpose of these ceramic figure?
To preserve the spirits of those decreased.
2. What continents did the Silk route travel through?
Asia, Middle East, and Europe. 
3. What is the article mostly about?
The ceramic figures, one of the features of the Silk Road, and what they are comprised of.
4. Why does the color on the camel fade away?
Through the years.
5. What did people exchange on Silk Route?
Goods, services, cultures, and languages.

Quiz for test 4:
1. According to Eleanor Roosevelt, who should enjoy four basic rights? 
Everyone
2. Sum up the four basic rights?
Basic education, justice, gosh, gosh.
3. How did Eleanor Roosevelt respond to Addie Frizielle’s concern about the desegregation of restrooms in the workplace?
Everyone should take a test before going to the restroom 
4. What did she said on discourteous people to defend colored people?
Discourterous people are everywhere, regardless of their race and skin color.
5. What is the main idea of the letter? 
Advocates for colored people's equality and opposes segregation