Name: Silas Landon
email: landonsi@grinnell.edu
Quiz for test 1:
1. How do the mistletoes get nutrients? absorbs from plants it has infected
2. How to mistletoes spread its population? by latching on seeds to birds and other animals that brush up against it
3. How to get rid of mistletoe? cut off the branch
4. What happens to effected branch? it can lose nutrients and die
5. Good things that mistletoes do to the animals? it can be a foodsource, athough their berries are generally poisonous, or a home

Quiz for test 2:
1. What does cooling tower do? provides water for buildings air conditioning
2. How can the bacteria in the cooling tower become harmful to people? How do they spread? it can spread legionaries desease, and by air
3. What illness is associated with the bacteria? legionaires disease
4. What regions in United States are effected by this bacteria inside the cooling tower? new york, north carolina
5. What conclusion is give by Dr. Llewellyn? that the high number of cooling towers, 84% had the disease's dna

Quiz for test 3:
1. What is the purpose of these ceramic figure? they were put in the tombs of wealthy aristocrats so that they would have it in the afterlife
2. What continents did the Silk route travel through? Europe and Asia, while the text also states the Middle East, I'm under the impression that's not a continent
3. What is the article mostly about? mostly about the ceramic figure, it goes into great detail to describe the shape of the two-humped camel and the man riding it
4. Why does the color on the camel fade away? the glaze wore off over time
5. What did people exchange on Silk Route? they exchanged goods such as the ceramic

Quiz for test 4:
1. According to Eleanor Roosevelt, who should enjoy four basic rights? citizens of a democracy
2. Sum up the four basic rights? right to work, right to justice, right to determine the laws which they are governed by, and right to liberty
3. How did Eleanor Roosevelt respond to Addie Frizielle’s concern about the desegregation of restrooms in the workplace? that if they were using the same bathrooms they coud take sanitary tests and that she haad nothing to worry about since they woul be cleaned anyway
4. What did she said on discourteous people to defend colored people? that she had run into discourteus "colored people" and discourteous white people
5. What is the main idea of the letter? that there was nothing to worry about and that the progress of desegragation had few of the drawbacks Miss F was concerned about

